---
date: 04/05/2021
title: Unsupervised Exemplar Representations: Beyond Task-based Optimization - Aayush Bansal
categories: meeting
time:
location: online
description:
---
Abstract: We are tuned to think in terms of "tasks" in computer vision, graphics, machine learning, and robotics. Given a problem, we collect a large amount of domain-specific and task-specific data. We then get appropriate human annotations on massive datasets to enable highly-tuned optimizations based on supervised learning. I believe this setup is prohibitive and has hindered progress in the community. In this talk, I will present two unsupervised approaches that build on a simple autoencoder. In the first part of the talk, I will talk about Exemplar Autoencoders trained on an individual's voice and yet generalizes for unknown voices in different languages. I will demonstrate its application as an assistive tool for speech-impaired and multi-lingual translation. In the second part of the talk, I will talk about Video-Specific Autoencoders trained on random frames of a video without temporal information via a simple reconstruction loss. The learned representation allows us to do a wide variety of video analytic tasks such as (but not limited to) spatial and temporal super-resolution, spatial and temporal editing, video textures, average video exploration, and correspondence estimation within and across videos. Neither approach optimizes for the end task and still competes with state-of-the-art supervised methods that do task-specific optimization.