---
date: 20/04/2021
title: Generic Event Boundary Detection: A Benchmark for Event Segmentation: Beyond Task-based Optimization - Mike Shou
categories: meeting
time:
location: online
description:
---
Abstract: In this talk, I will present a novel task together with a new benchmark for detecting generic, taxonomy-free event boundaries that segment a whole video into chunks. Conventional work in temporal video segmentation and action detection focuses on localizing pre-defined action categories and thus does not scale to generic videos. Cognitive Science has known since last century that humans consistently segment videos into meaningful temporal chunks. This segmentation happens naturally, without pre-defined event categories and without being explicitly asked to do so. Here, we repeat these cognitive experiments on mainstream CV datasets; with our novel annotation guideline which addresses the complexities of taxonomy-free event boundary annotation, we introduce the task of Generic Event Boundary Detection (GEBD) and the new benchmark Kinetics-GEBD. Our Kinetics-GEBD has the largest number of boundaries (e.g. 32x of ActivityNet, 8x of EPIC-Kitchens-100) which are in-the-wild, open-vocabulary, cover generic event change, and respect human perception diversity. We view GEBD as an important stepping stone towards understanding the video as a whole, and believe it has been previously neglected due to a lack of proper task definition and annotations. Through experiment and human study we demonstrate the value of the annotations. Further, we benchmark supervised and un-supervised GEBD approaches on the TAPOS dataset and our Kinetics-GEBD, together with method design explorations that suggest future directions. We release our annotations and baseline codes at CVPR'21 LOVEU Challenge: https://sites.google.com/view/loveucvpr21