---
date: 07/09/2021
title: InSeGAN: An Unsupervised Approach to Identical Instance Segmentation - Anoop Cherian
categories: meeting
time:
location: online
description:
---
Abstract: Identifying (nearly) identical instances of objects is a problem that is ubiquitous in daily life. For example, when taking a paperclip from a container, choosing an apple from a box, or removing a book from a library shelf, humans subconsciously solve this problem because we have an understanding of what the individual instances are. However, when robots are deployed for such a picking task, they need to be able to identify the instances for planning their grasp and approach. In many of these scenarios, the robot's owners often have no access to a 3D model of the object to be picked, and annotating individual instances for training can be costly, inconvenient, and unscalable. However, they may have access to collections of unlabeled images each containing multiple instances of the object, such as for example, just shaking the paperclip container. In this talk, I will introduce InSeGAN -- an unsupervised algorithm based on a 3D generative adversarial network (GAN) for segmenting instances of identical rigid objects in depth images. InSeGAN is an analysis-by-synthesis approach in which we design a novel GAN architecture to synthesize multiple-instance depth images with independent control over each instance, and which at test time can be reconfigured to produce instance segmentations for real-world depth images. To empirically validate the benefits of InSeGAN, I will showcase experiments on several synthetic and robot-collected-real-world datasets; our results outperforming several classical and very recent deep learning methods by large margins.